# Title: Cortical population activity within a preserved neural manifold underlies multiple motor behaviors
# Authors: Gallego et al (2018)

### Main Takeaway: Rhesus monkey (total 3) study - Comparison of neural modes associated with variety of skilled arm and hand tasks. Those capture dominant neural covariance patterns during tasks. They find task indep activity that might correspond to generic temporal features (transition from planning to execution) or mapping onto muscle activity. Combinatoric activation of different neural modes might be general comp mechanism guiding cognitive processes not only in motor cortex.

# General Notes:

* Problem of finding low-dim manifold in motor cortex - single neuron tuning vs network analysis - dimensionality reduction of neuron activity recordings defines neural manifold (NM)

* NM captures covariance patterns across neural population activity - spanned by set of basis vectors (neural modes) - hypothesis: arise from network connectivity
    * Population activity captured by modes is fundamental computational unit
    * comparison of different manifolds - cortex generates skilled behaviors throufgh flexible activation of combinations of modes - not fully task-Specific
    * Orientation of manifolds was preserved across tasks

* Activity of a set of preserved neural modes was strongly predictive of muscle activity patterns (EMG) across tasks

* Methods:
    * PCA dim red - 96 channel microelectrode array: compare principal angles between manifolds of different tasks - if small: similar orientation and much of covariance structure captured.
        * 96-to-12 d reduction capturing ca 75percent of variance in neural activity - low-dim = robustness - most neurons contributed!
    * Tensor maximum entropy method: computed distribution of principal angles obtained from null hypothesis generated by TME (surrogate data with same variance) - used as surrogates - robustness/stability
    * Inter-task Manifold Projection: across-task/within-task variance accounted for (VAF) - 83percent! - preservation of structure across tasks
    * demixed PCA: find single neural manifold for all task in given session
        * 2 task-indep modes: time-related and target-related modes
        * 2 task-dep modes: only task and task+direction of movement
    * canonical correlation analysis (CCA): method for comparing high-dim time series - comparison of similarity in latent activity to similarities in EMG
        * leading CC between latent activity across tasks higher than those between EMGs

* Neural acticity synthesized from EMGs is lower dim and less dynamically correlated across tasks than actual neural activity.

# Questions:

* NeuRIPS talk Ryan Adams - structured VAE
* Similarities of manifolds would make sense/facilitate a form of skill-transfer learning! - stability of network activity!
